Kick off your data engineer job description by introducing prospective applicants to your company, corporate culture, and working environment. This is your chance to let prospective engineers know what you have to offer new hires and set your posting apart from the rest by catering your recruiting pitch to the ideal candidate.

Data Engineer Job Responsibilities:

Develops and maintains scalable data pipelines and builds out new API integrations to support continuing increases in data volume and complexity.
Collaborates with analytics and business teams to improve data models that feed business intelligence tools, increasing data accessibility and fostering data-driven decision making across the organization.
Implements processes and systems to monitor data quality, ensuring production data is always accurate and available for key stakeholders and business processes that depend on it.
Writes unit/integration tests, contributes to engineering wiki, and documents work.
Performs data analysis required to troubleshoot data related issues and assist in the resolution of data issues.
Works closely with a team of frontend and backend engineers, product managers, and analysts.
Defines company data assets (data models), spark, sparkSQL, and hiveSQL jobs to populate data models.
Designs data integrations and data quality framework.
Designs and evaluates open source and vendor tools for data lineage.
Works closely with all business units and engineering teams to develop strategy for long term data platform architecture.
[Work Hours & Benefits] Job seekers also want to know about your working hours and benefits. The best performing job descriptions inform future data engineers about the availability of flexible hours, work from home options, or other telecommuting opportunities. They also don’t forget highlight unique office perks and benefits they offer, like conference sponsorships, continuing education credits, or paid time off.

Data Engineer Qualifications / Skills:

Knowledge of best practices and IT operations in an always-up, always-available service
Experience with or knowledge of Agile Software Development methodologies
Excellent problem solving and troubleshooting skills
Process oriented with great documentation skills
Excellent oral and written communication skills with a keen sense of customer service
Education, Experience, and Licensing Requirements:

BS or MS degree in Computer Science or a related technical field
4+ years of Python or Java development experience
4+ years of SQL experience (No-SQL experience is a plus)
4+ years of experience with schema design and dimensional data modeling
Ability in managing and communicating data warehouse plans to internal clients
Experience designing, building, and maintaining data processing systems
Experience working with either a Map Reduce or an MPP system on any size/scale
[Call to Action] You’ve attracted some eyeballs on your job description, but how do you get the applications in your inbox? With a compelling call to action that lets engineers know exactly how to apply and encourages them to do so. Advise job seekers to apply via this listing or to contact your HR department directly, and include any other application requirements